# `yaclt`

What is `yaclt`? It's <ins>**Y**</ins>et <ins>**A**</ins>nother <ins>**C**</ins>hange<ins>**L**</ins>og <ins>**T**</ins>ool.

`yaclt` is a file-based changelog generator. The idea is basically the following:

- For each pull request/merge request, include a changelog file generated by this tool -- it gets stored in source control until the next release
- To prepare a release, use the `prepare-release` command, which will:
  - Gather all the individual changelog entries into a global `CHANGELOG.md` (or whatever file you've specified)
  - Delete all the individual changelog files

The changelog entry format and the global changelog file template are both [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com) templates, and you can use the extra helpers from [`handlebars-helpers`](https://github.com/helpers/handlebars-helpers).

Help for each command can be found by running the command with the `--help` argument.

## Handlebars Variables

- `changeType` - the change type for the entry, e.g. `NEW`, `IMPROVED`, `FIXED`, or custom ones you've configured. This is required.
- `message` - the change log entry message. This is required.
- `issueId` - the issue ID. This is optional based on your config.

## Configuration

All command line flags and arguments can be specified in a configuration file. Supported file names are `yacltrc.yml`, `yacltrc.yaml`, `yacltrc.json`, and `yacltrc.js` (`.js` config must use `module.exports =`).

If the working directory is inside a git repository, the tree will be traversed to the git root, using the first valid configuration file that is found. If no configuration file is found in the repo,
it will also check, in order of precedence, `$YACLT_CONFIG_HOME/`, `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yaclt/`, `$HOME/.config/yaclt/` for global configuration files.
